Cynus BLE protocol v3.7
1 notes
1.1: The protocol is a UCI similar protocol, all the commands end
with ‘\n’.
1.2: The communication is base on Bluetooth LE 5.1, the
Characteristic of Cynus bluetooth which is used for communication is
"FFF1"
2 commands
2.1: playing related commands
2.1.1:set internal engine on/off
When using external engine to control the robotic arm, you need
to send "set internal engine off\n" first to disable the built-in stockfish,
then each time the clock button on chessboard get pressed, Cynus will
send a position string along with a “get move\n” command out.
Otherwise the only the position string of the board will be sent out
without “get move\n”, do not control the arm by “move AxBy\n”
command in this case, because the built-in engine will control the
robotic arm.
The built-in Stockfish will be enabled automatically if the BLE
connection gets broken.
2.1.2: set flip board on/off
Physically the row 8 is on the robot side, so the robot will play
black according to the rules. By sending the command “set flip board
on\n” the board will be flipped the board logically, which means the
row 1 will be on the robot side, so that the robot can play the white
chess pieces.
Note: if there is no BLE connection for the robot, it is changed by
the color of the promotion queen each time the robot gets connected
by the board with the firmware later than 1.3.0. Otherwise it is set by
the command.
2.1.3: set time [x y] / [unlimited]
When setting time unlimited, emoji shows on the screen.
otherwise, countdown timer shows on the screen.
In which the ‘x’ means the total time for each side and the
‘y’ means the increment after each move. For example “set time 5\
n” will set the total time to 5 minutes and no increment. “set time 5
3\n” will set the total time to 5 minutes and 3 seconds increment each
move.
2.1.4: get fen
By the default Cynus will send the current position out when it
gets connected by BLE, and send the position out each time the clock
button gets pressed.
But you can still ask the Cynus to send you the current position by this
command.
In the image above, the position string in red is sent out when the
Cynus gets connected and the position string in green is sent out on
the command “get fen\n”
Note: this command only works when the board is connected with
robot, otherwise no return for this command. And the robot only return
the FEN string it scanned last time, this command doesn’t trigger a
board scanning. If you want the robot scan the board please use the
command “scan board\n”.
2.1.5: move AxBy
Cynus will move the pieces from Ax to By on the board by
receiving this command. And both upper case in files “move AxBy\n”
or lower case in files “move axby\n” are supported. Here are some
notes for special moves:
 For castling, only the king’s move is needed to send to the robot,
for example “move e8g8\n” will make the robot to make a short
castling when it play black.
 For en-passant, only the move of robot’s pawn is needed to send
to the robot.
 For promotion, the promotion is needed to sent to the robot. For
example “move h2h1q\n”will promote the pawn at h2 with the
queen.
2.1.6: set robot turn
This command is same as pressing the clock button on the
chessboard, robot will scan the board after receiving the command, and
send the FEN string of the board out by BLE after finishing the
scanning. If the internal engine is used, the robot will make the move
itself.
2.1.7: scan board
Different from the command “set robot turn\n”, this command
only let the robot scan the board and send the FEN string of the board
out by BLE, no move is made.
2.1.8: set wait minutes
This command is only for testing, it will change the time that
robot goes into sleeping mode. By default the value is 10 minutes, you
can use the command “set wait minutes 30\n” to set the value to 30
minutes.
2.1.9: get wait minutes
Robot will return the wait time set by the command above;
2.1.10: get robot status
Robot will return its status after receiving this command, the
status includes starting, scanning, thinking, waiting, moving, idling,
sleeping, upgrading. For example, robot will return “robot is moving\
n” when it is moving the chess pieces.
2.1.11: play audio
Ask the robot to play the corresponding audio. For example
“play audio error\n” will ask the robot to play audio “error”. The
audios which is supported now are: “check”, “checkmate”,
“error”.
2.1.12: display txt
Ask the robot to display the text on the screen. For example,
“display txt e2d2\n” will ask the robot to display the “e2d2” on the
bottom of the screen.
Please be noted that the text should be less than 10 characters, if
more than 10 characters is sent by this command, only the first 10
characters will be show on the screen.
2.1.12 timer mode
There are two modes for the timer, web mode and robot mode,
commands “set timer mode robot\n” and “set timer mode web\n”
are used to switch between each other. By default the timer is set to
robot mode, in which the timer will keep going when the robot is
moving the chess pieces. You can use the command “set timer mode
web” to change the timer to web mode, in which the timer will stop
immediately when the robot receives the move command from the
App. This is used for connecting the Cynus to the web platform like
chess.com or lichess, because the timer on the website will stop once it
sends the move command out.
2.1.13: sync time
“sync time bb:bb ww:ww\n”will change the time for black and
white when the robot is set to time mode. “bb:bb” set the time for
black and “ww:ww”set the time for white. For example “sync time
5:03 7:22\” will set the time 5:03 for black and 7:22 for white.
Usually the time on the robot is different from the time on the app
or the platform like chess.com or lichess, This command is used to sync
the time between robot and your app.
2.1.14: set volume
The volume will be change by the command “set volume xx\n”,
the xx in range from 0 to 100, in which 0 will mute the robot, and the
100 will maximize the volume. The setting will be stored in the robot.
2.2 other commands:
2.2.1: force reset
This command will reset the arm to the state which is ready for
board scanning.
2.2.2: force fold
This command will fold the arm to the state which is ready for
storage.
2.2.3: force grab
Move the magnet in the gripper down to grab chess piece.
2.2.4: force release
Move the magnet in the gripper up to release chess piece.
2.2.5:get serial number
Cynus will return the serial string like:"serial 14d099f4901abd2d\
n", it is a 16 bytes string.
2.2.6:get battery
Cynus will return the voltage of the Cynus. there is a two cell li-po
battery embedded, the voltage is 8.4V when full, and 7.4v when empty.
If the robot is charging, the information will be ended with “+”,
otherwise it will be ended with “-”.
2.2.7:get software version
Cynsu returns it’s software version
2.2.8:get hardware version
Cynsu returns it’s hardware version
2.2.9: move AxBy s t
This command is different from the command “move AxBy\n”, it
is force mode of move command.
By specifying the chess piece at the starting position with ‘s’
and the chess piece at destination with ‘t’ in this command, the
robot will not check if there are corresponding chess piece on the
certain position and ignore the special move check like en-passant or
castling. It will capture the ‘t’ from By first, then move the ‘s’ from
Ax to By, even if there is no ‘s’ on the Ax and ‘t’ on the board. And
if the‘t’is not specified, it will move ‘s’ from Ax to By directly,
even if there is a chess piece at By on the board.
This command is designed for test only. Or if you want to make
some special move without trigger the normal special move.


3: exampale
ble_stockfish.py is an example which use external chess engine
running on PC in Python to control the Cynus.
Here are main steps of the program:
1:Import bleak for BLE connection and import stockfish as chess
engine.
2: Search the BLE device whose name start with Cynus and
connect to it.
3: Send command "set internal engine off\n" to Cynus to disable
the built-in chess engine.
4: Press the clock button on the chessboard to trigger a robot
move. Robot will scan the board and send the position to your
program.
5: Then Cynus will send “get move\n” command to your
program.
6: Send the fen string to local chess engine and get the best
move.
7: Send the command "move AxBy\n" to Cynus to make the robot
move the chess pieces.